Now that we have seen how to onboard in AWS EC2,
next we need to look at onboarding non‑AWS virtual machines.
This could be a virtual machine in your datacenter,
a desktop PC or virtual machines on other cloud providers like Azure or GCP.
No matter where they are, we need to do these things here.
First of all,
we need to create a Systems Manager activation key and code to be used
for onboarding during installation of the SSM Agent.
We also need to create a custom IAM role.
This IAM role is then used to communicate with Systems
Manager on behalf of that virtual machine,
similar to the role we created in the previous demo.
It's also very likely that the non‑AWS VM will not have the SSM Agent installed,
so we will need to take care of that as well.
So let's jump into our next demo where we're going to have a look at
onboarding a non‑AWS virtual machine to Systems Manager.
We're back in the Systems Manager console,
and the first thing we need to do, as I mentioned,
is to create an activation.
Activations are created in the Hybrid Activations tab.
In here, we can create an activation,
and we're also able to see already existing activations.
Let's create a new one.
Click on Create an Activation, and here we can provide a description for it.
We also need to specify how many virtual machines we want to allow
this one activation to onboard to Systems Manager.
The default is one, and for now we only need one VM,
so we'll just leave it at that.
Next thing, I did mention we will also require a new IAM role for these hybrid,
non‑AWS virtual machines.
Systems Manager gives us two options.
We can either have it create in new role with the correct policies for us,
or if there's already a role deployed that has the correct permissions,
we can select that existing custom role.
We can also apply an expiration date to this activation, and we can
apply a default name to the instances. As an example,
we can call it globomanticslinux because in our case now we're
going to activate a Linux virtual machine next. We create the
activation, and once it's created,
it's important to not click too quickly because up here in that
green banner we can now see the activation code and the
activation ID. These two values are only,
I repeat, only available to you at this point in time.
If you close this tab,
you have to go and create a new activation to get a new activation code.
So we'll just leave it as it is and head over to our terminal
where we have already SSH'd into an existing Linux virtual
machine that's not on AWS. So here we've already got a script
present to install the SSM Agent.
This script will also be available in the exercise files,
but we can take a quick look at it.
It's fairly straightforward.
Download the agent, unzip it, and go through the installation. Part
of the installation is also the registration for which we have to
provide the installer with the activation code, ID, and the region
that we want this to happen in.
Let's close out of here and execute the script.
We copy and paste the required parameters in. First, the activation code. Next,
the activation ID.
And lastly, the region we're deploying into.
We're using Sydney, as mentioned before, and the AWS region
name for it is ap‑southeast‑2. Executing this,
we see the script output as expected,
that it only takes a couple of seconds, and we can see it's already installing
and registering the agent. And yep, it's already registered as it says, and we
can now head back to the Systems Manager console.
Click on the activation, and we can see that the registered instances
count is now increased to 1. Browsing down back to the Managed Instances
we've already seen in the previous demo, we can actually now see the
managed instance, the name we've provided and the activation, and clicking
on it, it's showing the same information as our AWS EC2. Congratulations!
We have just successfully registered a non‑AWS virtual machine to Systems Manager.